
Hello welcome to our second Glue Lecture.
I hope everyone is enjoying the course so
far. today's lecture is going to discuss
robot models, which is kind of what we've
been talking about here in module two. and
again, this is kind of tailored to help
with quiz two. So, in lecture this week we
saw, Dr. Egarsteade showed two different
models for our robot. And this, the same
differential drive robot and so I kind of
want to get into before I go into
examples, why we use those two different
models and why they're useful and how
should kind of think about them and it
should help you on the quiz. So what if,
and you know, in class, we discussed this
differential-drive robot, but what if we
had a dancing robot, okay? This, this
humanoid robot, now has 25 degrees of
freedom, and has these arms, these knees,
shoulders. It's, it's very articulated.
And this is a lot to think about, right?
So. I certainly, if I'm thinking about how
I might want a robot to dance, I don't
know exactly how I want every wrist, the
ankle, the hips, that would be kind of a
lot to coordinate for me, and it would
make this project very hard. So let's
imagine that instead what we're thinking
about is just how we want the robot to be
dancing. Some style of movement that we
want it to use. This is kind of an easy
thing to think about, and then we can
imagine In that somehow I have made a
mapping between style of dancing and joint
angles and then somewhere else I might
have in I think of that as this pink box
here and then somewhere else I have kind
of a mapping between angles and forces and
exactly what controller needs to be
running on the robot. Then this task is
very easy, right? We just think of desired
dancing style. We tell that, and how that
should change over time. And then these
maps take care of exactly what's going on
under the hood. So we think of these as
layers of abstraction that are easier to
work with than others. Of course, this one
is necessary. We need to tell that the
motors that are controlling these joint s
what to do, but from a planning standpoint
this is easier, right. Now, in this case
this, this green map is provided by the
manufacturer of this robot, which is a,
now robot. This might be harder to come
by, but Let's say we have it and just kind
of as a example of what we might think.
Let's say we want the robot to be, be
cheer leading. We'd specify that at this
end. now comes to movement that we think
kind of represents the style of movement
And if I change that, maybe I change the
way the robot's moving. Again, this map
and this map are taking care of kind of
all the hard stuff and then all I have to
think about is this guy. So this kind of a
really Involved an example. Kind of an
unusual example, but it gets this idea
that here's the layer of attraction where
we want to be using. If we make this 1
time mapping, between the stylus movement
to join angles, to join forces, we get off
this kind of movement. And we have this
same situation with the differential drive
robot from class. So here's kind of a
close-up of that robot.
It has these two wheels underneath that
can turn independently of each other. That
what makes it differential drive. That's
what makes it move. Kind of hard to think
about, we don't, you know, telling exactly
which wheel should move exactly how at
every moment would be kind of hard. We
really just want to think about the
resulting behavior. So we think about that
in terms of these V and W, the speed of
the robot and how it's turning. Right?
That can make sense. It's similar to
driving a car. Which is a experience that
we kind of all share. And now, we still
somehow need to get out exactly what the
wheels should be doing. Right? The
velocities, the distance they should be
traveling. And then, somehow, we have to
relate that to actually what we're
measuring on the robot, right? These
encoder ticks. And so we accomplish that
through odometry. And we used these two
maps to kind of have this, so that we can
think about programming the robot in terms
of these. An d out, we get implemental,
implementable commands for the robot.
Right? So we saw these maps in class. We
saw lots of maps. And what the maps are,
right, are just equations that relate. The
high level variables to, or the high level
variables here, sorry V and W to the low
level variables here VR and VL, the
velocity of each wheel. Right.
And we can relate the velocity of each
wheel to the distance of each wheel.
That's just a, Normal equation right, rate
of change. And here, then we can take
those distances and relate it to ticks. So
we can think of these equations now as
maps that let us move between these layers
of abstraction. And this is exactly what
some of the questions on the home, on the
quiz are going to ask. Going back and
forth between these layers of abstraction
and it's just a matter of implementing the
correct equations. So what if we have this
question or approach this question. What
happens to the robot, what's the resulting
behavior if z is zero and w is constant?
So this is kind of going from this high
level behavior up here down to what's
exactly happening on the wheels at this
end. And all we need to do is use these
basic equations that I had on the last
light as well and that , introduced in
lecture. We can fill in for v being 0 for
the left and the right and for w as being
sub constant. And now you see that you're
going to get constant speed for both the
left and the right, and one is just going
to be the negative of the other. So one
wheel's going forward, and one wheel's
going backwards. So what's happening to
the robot? This might be easy to intuit
here, right? Because we know that v is
zero, and if w is constant, we are
turning. But here you can see exactly how
that contributes to the velocities of each
wheel. So if you need a further guide,
this is how to do it. We can see that the
robot is just spinning around, right.
Spin, spin, spin, right. One wheels
turning forward, one wheels turning
backwards, and it spins. So, kind of going
from the other direction, now we're given
information about exactly what the wheels
are doing. Right? We have some specifics
about this robot. Now, what happens,
what's the high level behavior that we get
out of it? So we can think about going
from this direction. We start here. With
information about the ticks on the
encoders. We use odometry to relate that
to wheel velocities. And then we're going
to know what's happening on the, on the
robot. So we had these equations here for,
to relate ticks to distance. So if we plug
in our number of ticks in our. Parameters,
radius of the wheel, number of ticks per
lo, per rotation of the wheel. We get that
the distance the right wheel travels is
ten, and that should actually be ten
inches, right? And the distance for the
left wheel is six. Now we'll call another
set of equations, right. This is the set
of equations that lets us figure out where
in terms of x, y, and fee, we are based on
the distances the wheels have turned. So
it's just a matter of plugging in from
here again. We take this, distance right,
distance left, we compute Dc right?
With this equation here and we get that C
is 2 radiants and we plug that into this
equation and we get an x and y position.
Our previous position was zero and updated
equations tells us that these terms are
what, are what is happened to the robot.
So, for the rest of the quiz, it's really
just a matter of kind of imagining the
robot in each of those scenarios, and
seeing what happens. Just think through
them, and I think you'll be great. Good
luck on the quiz, and I'll see you at the
forums.
